OPTIPNG(1)                                                          OPTIPNG(1)

NAME
       OptiPNG  -  Advanced optimization program for Portable Network Graphics
       (PNG)

SYNOPSIS
       optipng [-? | -h | -help]
       optipng [options...] files...

DESCRIPTION
       OptiPNG is a PNG optimizer that recompresses image files to  a  smaller
       size  without  losing  any information.  In addition, this program per-
       forms a suite of useful  functions  like  integrity  checks,  meta-data
       recovery and pixmap-to-PNG conversion.

FILES
       The input files are image files of following types:

       - Native format: PNG.

       -  External  pixmap  formats  (currently  supported:  GIF, BMP, PNM and
       TIFF).

       OptiPNG processes each input file as follows:

       - If it is a PNG file:

              If it is possible to create an optimized version  of  the  given
              PNG  file,  the  optimized  file  replaces the original one. The
              original file can be backed up, at the user's option.

       - Otherwise (i.e. if it is an external pixmap format):

              An optimized PNG version of the given  image  file  is  created.
              The  output file name is created from the original file name and
              the .png extension.

       For example:

              optipng file1.png file2.gif

       will create an optimized file1.png and an  optimized  file2.png.   (The
       original  file1.png  is  replaced  by  the  optimized one; the original
       file2.gif is left intact.)

OPTIONS
   Basic options
       -?, -h, -help
              Show a complete summary of options.

       -o level
              Select the optimization level.
              Use -o0 to disable IDAT recompression trials.
              Use -o1 to enable a single IDAT recompression trial.
              Use a higher level to enable more trials (the higher the  level,
              the more trials).
              The  behavior  and  the  default  value  of this user option may
              change across different program versions. Use option -h  to  see
              the details pertaining to your specific version.

       -i type
              Select the interlace type (0-1).
              Use -i0 to produce a non-interlaced output.
              Use -i1 to produce an interlaced (Adam7) output.
              If this option is not used, the output will have the same inter-
              lace type as the input.

       -k, -keep
              Keep a backup of the modified file(s).
              The files that use the backup names prior to the program  execu-
              tion are not overwritten.

       -q, -quiet
              Run in quiet mode.

       -v     Run in verbose mode / Show copyright, version and build info.

   Advanced options
       -zc levels
              Select the zlib compression levels.
              The  behavior  and  the  default  value  of this user option may
              change across different program versions. Use option -h  to  see
              the details pertaining to your specific version.

       -zm levels
              Select the zlib memory levels.
              The  behavior  and  the  default  value  of this user option may
              change across different program versions. Use option -h  to  see
              the details pertaining to your specific version.

       -zs strategies
              Select the zlib compression strategies.
              The  behavior  and  the  default  value  of this user option may
              change across different program versions. Use option -h  to  see
              the details pertaining to your specific version.

       -zw window size
              Select the zlib window size (32k,16k,8k,4k,2k,1k,512,256).
              The window size can be specified either in bytes (e.g. 16384) or
              kilobytes (e.g. 16k).

       -f filters
              Select the PNG delta filters.
              The behavior and the default  value  of  this  user  option  may
              change  across  different program versions. The filter values 0,
              1, 2, 3, 4 correspond to the PNG standard filters  (None,  Left,
              Up,  Average and Paeth, respectively). The other values are used
              to specify adaptive filtering. Use option -h to see the  details
              pertaining to your specific version.

       -nb    Do not apply bit depth reduction.

       -nc    Do not apply color type reduction.

       -np    Do not apply palette reduction.

       -nz    Do not perform IDAT recompression (also disable reductions).

       -fix   Enable error recovery.

       -force Write  a  new  output  file, even if it is larger than the input
              file.

       -full  Produce a full report on IDAT.  This option might slow down  the
              trials.

       -log file
              Append  log  messages  to file.  For security reasons, file must
              have the extension .log.

       -preserve
              Preserve file attributes (time stamps, file access rights, etc.)
              where applicable.

       -simulate
              Run  in  simulation  mode: perform the trials, but do not create
              output files.

       --     Stop option switch parsing.

   Notes
       The option names are case-insensitive  and  can  be  abbreviated.   Any
       abbreviation must uniquely identify the full option name and must be no
       shorter than two letters, unless one letter  is  explicitly  permitted.
       For  example,  -quiet  can be abbreviated as -q or -qu, while -preserve
       can be abbreviated as -pr but not as -p.

       Some options may have arguments that follow the option  name,  with  or
       without a whitespace used as a separator; e.g.

              optipng -i1 -o3 file.png  <=>  optipng -i 1 -o 3 file.png

       Range arguments are cumulative; e.g.

              -f0 -f3-5  <=>  -f0,3-5
              -zs0 -zs1 -zs2-3  <=>  -zs0,1,2,3  <=>  -zs0-3

       The  zlib  window  size is automatically set to a minimum that does not
       affect the compression ratio.

       The output files will have all IDAT in  a  single  chunk,  even  if  no
       recompression is performed.

       Extremely exhaustive searches are not generally recommended.

EXAMPLES
       optipng file.png

       optipng -o5 file.png

       optipng -o7 file.png

       optipng -i1 -o7 -v -full -sim experiment.png -log experiment.log

BUGS
       Lossless  image  reductions are not completely implemented.  (This does
       NOT affect the integrity of the output files.)  Here  are  the  missing
       pieces:

              - The color palette reductions are implemented only partially.
              -  The  bit  depth reductions below 8, for grayscale images, are
              not implemented yet.
              - The gray(alpha)-to-palette reductions are not implemented yet.

       BMP support is limited to uncompressed images.

       TIFF support is limited to uncompressed, PNG-compatible (grayscale, RGB
       and RGBA) images.

       Metadata is not imported from the external image formats.

AUTHOR
       OptiPNG is written and maintained by Cosmin Truta.

       This manual page was originally written by Nelson A.  de  Oliveira  for
       the Debian project. It was later corrected and updated by Cosmin Truta,
       and is now part of the OptiPNG distribution.

OptiPNG Version 0.5.3            23 July 2006                       OPTIPNG(1)
